---
layout: project
title: netgsa/
project: netgsa
---

How to install?
--------------
```r
install.packages("netgsa",build_vignettes=T)
```
Reference manual is available on [CRAN](https://cran.r-project.org/web/packages/netgsa/index.html). A [vignette](https://cran.r-project.org/web/packages/netgsa/vignettes/netgsa.html) on how to use NetGSA is also available. A development version is available on [GitHub](https://github.com/drjingma/netgsa) and can be installed via the following:
```r
library(devtools)
devtools::install_github("drjingma/netgsa", build_vignettes=T)
```
More details about the method implemented can be found in the original paper [here](/assets/pdfs/papers/2016-Ma-NetGSA.pdf) and a follow-up review paper [here](/assets/pdfs/papers/2019-Ma-NetGSA.pdf). 

Why should someone use `netgsa`?
------------------------------
 - NetGSA incorporates the rich network information curated in public databases (e.g. KEGG, reactome, etc.) and/or learned from high-throughput sequencing data, thereby gaining power in detecting active genetic/metabolic pathways.

How does it compare to other existing methods?
------------------------------------------------
 - NetGSA tests the self-contained null hypothesis and compares the set of genes in a given pathway with itself. 
 - NetGSA allows users to complement potentially misspecified information in public databases with high-throughput sequencing data.
 - NetGSA is particularly powerful in detecting active metabolic pathways from metabolomic data where the pathway size is relatively small and available metabolic network information is sparse.  
 - See more details in our review paper [here](/assets/pdfs/papers/2019-Ma-NetGSA.pdf).

Note
-----
 - NetGSA is based on a linear mixed model. Estimation of the variance components in this model can be done via restricted maximum likelihood or via the restricted Haseman-Elston (REHE) regression. See our recent paper [here](/assets/pdfs/papers/2021-yue-REHE.pdf) for fast variance components estimation with REHE. 
 - NetGSA is seamlessly integrated with external databases on gene-gene interactions and utilizes Cytoscape for interactive visualization of enriched pathways. Moreover, NetGSA can handle thousands of genes within minutes. See [here](/assets/pdfs/papers/2021-Hellstern.pdf) for details on how we improved the computation and visualization of NetGSA.  
